>> Nina Zakharenko: Tuples
are also a great way to quickly
consolidate information because of
something called tuple unpacking.
So looking back at our student, we have
a name, an age, a subject, and a GPA.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We can unpack this by
declaring variable names on the left side
of the expression.
And matching them up with
the number of items in the tuple.
And separating them with a comma.
Second say, name, comma,
age, comma, subject,
comma, gpa, equals student.
It looks a little weird, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: But now, all of
a sudden, my variable name is filled in,
age is filled in,
subject filled in, gpa filled in.
Super easy, right?
If this was a row in a spreadsheet,
I could just pull out
the values super quickly.
>> Nina Zakharenko: As we're
first starting out, and
this is not a syntax rule in Python,
there's a way of doing it.
But generally,
we want the number of variables that we
declare to match up to the number
of items in the tuple.
If you don't believe,
you will see an error.
Let me double check that.
Right, yeah, you'll see a ValueError,
too many values to unpack.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we don't care about
saving one of the values as a variable we
can use the underscore.
So let's say, I just want a name,
age and the subject.
And I don't care about Marcy's GPA,
I can use the shorthand underscore.
And if I sign that to student my name,
age and subject will be set.
But this is just, it means throw away
this value, I don't really care.
I know this is super weird, but you'll
probably see it in Python code out in
the wild, and
then you'll know what it means.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You can return tuples
from functions and use on packing.
Let's see that very quickly.
And before moving on, so
I told you that parenthesis mean the tuple
but that's not entirely true right?
It's actually the comma.
I can also declare my tuple like this,
without the parentheses, right?
Cuz it's the comma that
makes a difference.
Let's say, I had a method to
get back an HTTPS status code.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I can return two
values, 200, which is the status code,
and OK, which is the name.
What type will this return?
It will return tuple, right?
Why, because of the commas,
there we go.
Now, I can use tuple unpacking.
If I know that this
function returns a tuple,
I can use tuple unpacking to quickly
get the values out as named variables.
So I can say that the code and
the name = http_status_code.
And that code will be 200,
name will be okay.
So, think tuples worth their while now?
>> Class: Yeah.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah.